---
layout: post
title: "New job and exciting new challenges"
author: "Sage Malingen"
categories: blog
tags: [blog]
image: flowers/lupines.jpg
---

I'm happy to share that I started a new position as a Research Scientist in Prof. Bing Brunton's group at the University of Washington, where I'm working with a large group to reveal how the brain, nervous system, and body mechanics integrate to create functional movement (e.g., the importance of <a href="https://www.thetransmitter.org/neuroai/breaking-the-jar-why-neuroai-needs-embodiment/">embodiment</a>).
It's exciting to be studying another biological system with complex feedback and biomechanics.
But starting a new job is always challenging: new systems, new people, new ideas, all at once.

Currently, I am learning MuJoCo to model biologically realistic wing flapping.
I'm digging into new challenges, like learning to use quaternions and learning new software.
And more than ever before, I have appreciated my undergraduate degree in proof-based, pure math.
In college, I took only one CS class: Java I.
This course formed the basis of the coding skills that have been a common thread in my research for the past decade, and I wish I had taken more.
But, interestingly, my math background has come back around in all of my research, too.
Not so much any of the nitty-gritty things I learned in Calculus, etc.
But instead, the ability to read and digest dense mathematical underpinnings, which are often concepts that I never took a course in.

It wasn't the courses in particular that are meaningful to me now, but rather the practice those math classes gave me in working through problems that initially felt totally intractable.
Over and over, I find that the past experiences that pushed my problem-solving and ability to persevere when I was in way over my head help me in my work today.
Currently, I am grateful to find a little ease and excitement in all of the "known unknowns" and joy in tackling totally fresh problems.
And, as I'm integrating AI tools into my workflow more, I'm reveling in how quickly I can find answers and speed up my coding.
